History[edit]

Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University College of Engineering, Pune, India under Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University was established by Dr. Patangrao Kadam in September 1983.

The college became a constituent unit of Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University in June 2000 and was thereafter accessed and accredited to grade “A” by NAAC further, all of its programmes are also accredited by NBA.

Campus[edit]

Bharati Vidyapeeth College of Engineering, Pune
The college is located 5 km from Pune on Pune-Satara Road.The college has the following facilities:

Health services[edit]
All forms of health services are available at the College campus. The Campus has four hospitals, two of Allopathy, including a dental hospital, and one each of Ayurveda and Homeopathy. The main hospital of Allopathy is located near to the campus. This hospital has a multidisciplinary OPD and IPD with super specialty services. An 850 bedded attached tertiary care Bharati Hospital.

Hostel[edit]
The university provides hostel facility to the students on first-come, first-served basis. It provides separate hostel for boys and girls. The capacity of Boy's hotel is 300+ whereas for Girl’s, it is 200+. For boys, the hostel facility is available for only first year. Mess facility for food and Internet Connection are also present.

Banking facility[edit]
The University has its own “Bharati Sahakari Bank" which was established in 1971 by its founder Dr. Patangrao Kadam. The bank also provides ATM facility to its account holders. The In-campus banking provides the students with many facilities, so they don’t have to rush to another bank for any transactions. Also, it provides the loan facility to the faculty and student at subsidiary rate.

Sports facilities[edit]
Sports equipments are made available to all students. The sports ground is available to all students for various activities.

Communication System[edit]
College is using SMS (Short Message Service) facility for its students and staff members. This is a useful tool for the College to have an efficient communication system and stay in touch with Students and Staff members. Regular updates, information and alerts are being sent to students and staff members through SMS on regular basis. This facility is having excellent hierarchical structure. A class is having group leader behind every 12 students and a GFM. If the College authority wish to inform any important information to students, a SMS is being sent to 12 group leaders. These group leader in turn inform to the members of his / her class. Also there is a provision to send SMS to all students, GFMs, staff members, HODs.

Audio visual hall[edit]
The Audio visual hall (AV Hall) is for seminars and presentations. ME / M TECH seminar, project presentation and Ph. D. seminar and presentations and conducted in this hall.

The college has Edusat link installed & activated at the AV Hall for transmission of Educational programs of :

AICTE (All India Council for Technical Education)
IGNOU (Indira Gandhi National Open University)
CIET Central Institute of Educational Technology
CEC Consortium for Educational Communication
These programs kept started in AV-Hall every day. Students and staff members utilize this facility to enhance their knowledge.

Gymnasium[edit]
Central Library[edit]
The College provides adequate library facilities to the staff and students. Selected valuable books recommended by the experts in the relevant fields are available in the Reference Hall while the library issues books for home reading. The College aims at increasing its stock of books progressively. The library subscribes to well-known journals and periodicals especially in the fields of science, technology and current affairs. The library is placed in spacious five-storied building.[1]